# We're making a small buy in an oversold market and debating further action
**Jeff Marks, Jim Cramer**

**2023-10-25 16:24**

**https://www.cnbc.com/2023/10/25/were-making-a-small-buy-in-an-oversold-market-and-debating-further-action.html**

We're buying 20 shares of Constellation Brands (STZ) at roughly $236. Following Wedneday's trade, Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust will own 350 shares of STZ, increasing its weighting in the portfolio to 3% from 2.83%. The market has officially entered oversold territory, according to the S & P 500 Short Range Oscillator . So we're sticking by our discipline of putting some cash to work at these lower prices, even as the overall market remains hostage to the selloff in bonds and increase in yields. Bond prices move in the opposite direction of yields. While the market can feel treacherous at times, we've already seen a decent bounce off of session lows, a move we owe to the fact that the market is oversold. The potential for these positive intraday swings is why we generally approach oversold markets with an opportunistic lens, looking for stocks to buy small, instead of running away from the market. STZ YTD mountain Constellation Brands YTD The position we are adding to is Constellation Brands , buying back a small piece of the 100 shares we trimmed when they were 9% higher back in July. Shares of this beer maker have been hurt lately due to concerns about higher interest rates and the long-term unknown of how the rise of GLP-1 obesity drugs, like Wegovy, will impact alcohol sales. However, we continue to point to the improving fundamentals of the company, as highlighted by its quarterly beat and raise earlier this month . To be fair, it wasn't a clean quarter as strength in beer was partially offset by weakness in Wine & Spirits. But our hope is that when the company presents at its Nov. 2 investor meeting, we'll hear management say that they are exploring all strategic options around Wine & Spirits in order to focus on beer. That's where all the growth is coming from thanks to the share gains of Modelo Especial. If we learn about a portfolio review and a commitment to increase cash returns to shareholders through a growing dividend and share buybacks, then we think the event will prove to be a positive catalyst for the stock. Elsewhere in the market, we are searching for more opportunities to put some money to work because prices are down and we are long-term-minded investors. But at the same time, we recognize the perils of when the bond market is in control, so we don't want to do anything rash. Here's a good example of our internal debate right now. We think Honeywell (HON) shares have come down too much, especially in the context of positive third-quarter readthroughs from aerospace-focused names like General Electric (GE) and RTX (RTX). HON YTD mountain Honeywell YTD Along the same lines, when Honeywell announced its business segment realignment two weeks ago, the company said it anticipates strong third-quarter results with upside to earnings per share. More details about the quarter and comments about Q4 and next year still need to be known, but Honeywell effectively took some bad news out of Thursday morning's release. For a stock that has been as disappointing as Honeywell has been this year, we would have thought it could rally on this news of a better third quarter. But that hasn't been the case, following a disturbing trend of many companies posting good quarters only to see their stocks get obliterated. That's why we are waiting and being patient about putting more money to work, even as we are still sitting on plenty of cash. (Jim Cramer's Charitable Trust is long STZ, HON. See here for a full list of the stocks.) As a subscriber to the CNBC Investing Club with Jim Cramer, you will receive a trade alert before Jim makes a trade. Jim waits 45 minutes after sending a trade alert before buying or selling a stock in his charitable trust's portfolio. If Jim has talked about a stock on CNBC TV, he waits 72 hours after issuing the trade alert before executing the trade. THE ABOVE INVESTING CLUB INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO OUR TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND PRIVACY POLICY , TOGETHER WITH OUR DISCLAIMER . NO FIDUCIARY OBLIGATION OR DUTY EXISTS, OR IS CREATED, BY VIRTUE OF YOUR RECEIPT OF ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTING CLUB. NO SPECIFIC OUTCOME OR PROFIT IS GUARANTEED.

Bottles of Modelo Especial beer sit on a table in Los Angeles on June 14, 2023.

Mario Tama | Getty Images